Add the supported targets page (#88)
fox-it/dissect-docs: docs/source/supported-targets.rst

Supported targets
-----------------

> This page contains a list of the systems that ``dissect`` supports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dissect supports a large range of formats. From various disk images, volume systems, file systems and operating systems, to tarballs and proprietary backup formats, and everything combined! This page aims to provide you with an overview of what you can expect Dissect to be able to handle!
```

Loaders
~~~~~~~

> Loaders provide a way to interact with a "target" by translating source data into a format understood by ``dissect.target``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loaders provide a way to interact with a "target" by combining and accessing source data into usable components for ``dissect.target``.
```
Maybe something more along these lines. The original text reads as if we convert between formats, which we don't do. We handle everything on the fly.

> They achieve this by combining multiple files to build a virtual representation of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to build a virtual representation of the original system.
```
This sentence would also need changing then. Maybe something like this.

.. seealso::

   For a deeper dive into how loaders work, see :doc:`loaders </advanced/loaders>`.

> The table below lists the available loader types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In most cases, the appropriate loader is selected automatically based on the target.

> However, you can also specify a loader manually using the ``-L <loader type>`` flag or URI-style notation ``<loader type>://`` with the exception for ``Direct``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can also specify a loader manually using the ``-L <loader type>`` flag or URI-style notation ``<loader type>://``.
```
I don't think it's relevant information here.

.. code-block:: bash

   target-query -f func -L ab /path/to/target

>    target-query -f func ab:///path/to/target

Reviewer: It needs to be more obvious that Dissect will automatically pick a loader based on file type/name, so maybe include an example or line that says something like, "For example, the Android Backup loader will automatically be used when you try to use Dissect on a `.ab` file.

.. list-table:: Supported Loaders
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 10 25

   * - Name
     - Loader type
     - Description
   * - :class:`Android Backup <dissect.target.loaders.ab.AndroidBackupLoader>`

>      - ``ab``

Reviewer: Maybe have the "Loader type" link to the module instead of the name to the class.

>      - Load Android backup files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Android backup files (``.ab``).
```

   * - :class:`Carbon Black <dissect.target.loaders.cb.CbLoader>`
     - ``cb``

>      - Use Carbon Black endpoints as targets using Live Response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Carbon Black Live Response endpoints. Can only be used directly with ``cb://`` or ``-L cb``.
```
Also, what's the URI format? An example could be nice.

   * - :class:`Cellebrite <dissect.target.loaders.cellebrite.CellebriteLoader>`
     - ``cellebrite``

>      - Load Cellebrite UFED exports (``.ufdx`` and ``.ufd``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Cellebrite UFED exports (``.ufdx`` and ``.ufd``).
```

   * - :class:`Directory <dissect.target.loaders.dir.DirLoader>`
     - ``dir``

>      - Load a local directory as a filesystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Use a local directory as the root of a virtual filesystem.
```

   * - :class:`Direct <dissect.target.loaders.direct.DirectLoader>`
     - ``--direct``
     - Load an evidence file directly instead of an image format.
       The plugins that can be used with this loader are:
       - apache
       - evt
       - evtx
       - iis

>        - syslog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This should be documented elsewhere.

   * - :class:`Hyper-V <dissect.target.loaders.hyperv.HyperVLoader>`
     - ``hyperv``

>      - Load Microsoft Hyper-V hypervisor files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Microsoft Hyper-V configuration files (``.xml`` and ``.vmcx``).
```

   * - :class:`Itunes Backup <dissect.target.loaders.itunes.ITunesLoader>`
     - ``itunes``

>      - Load iTunes backup files.

Reviewer: Etcetera for all the other loaders. Include the file type they support. It needs to be more obvious that Dissect will automatically pick a loader for this file type, or how to use it if it's a URI based loader.

Maybe file extension needs to be a separate column? Or at least be more obvious or listed at all.

Author: I'll put the file extensions inside a separate column, makes more sense

     - Load Rapid7 Velociraptor forensic image files.
   * - :class:`Virtual Machine Archive <dissect.target.loaders.vma.VmaLoader>`
     - ``vma``
     - Load Proxmox Virtual Machine Archive (VMA) files.
   * - :class:`VMware Fusion <dissect.target.loaders.vmwarevm.VmwarevmLoader>`
     - ``vmwarevm``
     - Load ``*.vmwarevm`` folders from VMware Fusion.
   * - :class:`VMware VM configuration <dissect.target.loaders.vmx.VmxLoader>`
     - ``vmx``
     - Load VMware virtual machine configuration (VMX) files.
   * - :class:`XVA <dissect.target.loaders.xva.XvaLoader>`
     - ``xva``
     - Load Citrix Hypervisor XVA format files.
   * - :class:`Zip <dissect.target.loaders.zip.ZipLoader>`
     - ``zip``
     - Load zip files themselves or interpret the output of tools like Acquire or UAC.

Containers
~~~~~~~~~~

Containers are the abstraction layer for anything that looks (or should look) like a raw disk.
They allow Dissect to interpret and interact with disk-like data structures in a consistent way.

.. seealso::

   For a deeper understanding on how containers work, see :doc:`containers <advanced/containers>`.

The table below lists the supported container formats.

> .. list-table:: Supported Containers

Reviewer: Same here, it's not very obvious what file extensions we support.

   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 30

   * - Container
     - Description
   * - :class:`Apple Sparse Image Format <dissect.target.containers.asif.AsifContainer>`

>      - No Documentation

Reviewer: So? Add some.

   * - :class:`Expert Witness Disk Image Format <dissect.target.containers.ewf.EwfContainer>`
     - Expert Witness Disk Image Format.
   * - :class:`Fortinet Firmware <dissect.target.containers.fortifw.FortiFirmwareContainer>`
     - No documentation
   * - :class:`HDD<dissect.target.containers.hdd.HddContainer>`

       :class:`HDS <dissect.target.containers.hds.HdsContainer>`
     - Parallels Desktop hard disk format
   * - :class:`Qcow2 <dissect.target.containers.qcow2.QCow2Container>`
     - Hard disk used for QEMU.
   * - :class:`VDI <dissect.target.containers.vdi.VdiContainer>`
     - The virtualbox harddisk format.
   * - :class:`Virtual Hard Disk <dissect.target.containers.vhd.VhdContainer>`

       :class:`Virtual Hard Disk X <dissect.target.containers.vhdx.VhdxContainer>`
     - The virtual hard disk formats used for the Hyper-V hypervisor.
       VHD is a precursor to VHDX
   * - :class:`VMware disk format <dissect.target.containers.vmdk.VmdkContainer>`
     - VMware virtual hard disks.

Partition Schemes and Volume Systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Partitions organize a disk into multiple logical volumes.

> Within `dissect.target` :class:`~dissect.target.volumes.disk.DissectVolumeSystem` handles the partition schemes that are listed below.

Reviewer: Why is this relevant?

.. list-table:: Supported Partition Schemes
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20

   * - Partition Scheme
   * - :class:`Apple Partition Map <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.apm.APM>`
   * - :class:`BSD Disklabel <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.bsd.BSD>`
   * - :class:`GUID Partition Table <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.gpt.GPT>`
   * - :class:`Master Boot Record <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.mbr.MBR>`

In addition to standard partition tables, Dissect supports various volume systems.

> These are used for RAID configurations or encrypted volumes such as ``LUKS`` and ``Bitlocker``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are used for RAID configurations or encrypted volumes such as ``LUKS`` and ``BitLocker``.
```

.. seealso::

    For more details, see :doc:`volumes <advanced/volumes>`.

The table below lists the different supported volume systems.

.. list-table:: Supported Volume Systems
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 30

   * - Volume System
     - Description
   * - :class:`Bitlocker <dissect.target.volumes.bde.BitlockerVolumeSystem>`

>      - Bitlocker encrypted volume system. Used by windows systems

Reviewer: Use proper capitalization.

   * - :class:`Disk Data Format <dissect.target.volumes.ddf.DdfVolumeSystem>`
     - DDF is a RAID data format that describes how data is formatted across raid groups.
   * - :class:`Linux Unified Key Setup <dissect.target.volumes.luks.LUKSVolumeSystem>`
     - LUKS encrypted volume system. These are a standard specification for disk encryption on linux systems.
   * - :class:`Logical Volume Manager <dissect.target.volumes.lvm.LvmVolumeSystem>`
     - LVM is a device mapper framework that can make multiple volumes on a single disk. 
   * - :class:`Multiple Device driver <dissect.target.volumes.md.MdVolumeSystem>`
     - Linux MD RAID volume system. A software based RAID system.

>    * - :class:`Virtual Machine Filesystem <dissect.target.volumes.vmfs.VmfsVolumeSystem>`

Reviewer: I'm not sure having the "name" linking to the class makes sense (everywhere, not just here). If I click on this, I'd expect to be taken to a Wikipedia page or something that explains what it is, not an API documentation. Maybe a separate column "API" or something makes more sense.

Don't add a link to Wikipedia, by the way. It was just an example of what to expect in relation to the text.

     - VMFS is a clustered filesystem developed by VMWare on an ESXi type hosts.

Filesystems
~~~~~~~~~~~

In Dissect, filesystems go beyond traditional disk-based structures.
If it behaves like a filesystem, Dissect can likely treat it as one.
This includes both standard filesystems and formats that resemble filesystem behavior.

Dissect provides implementations for common filesystems such as :doc:`NTFS </projects/dissect.ntfs/index>` and :doc:`VMFS </projects/dissect.vmfs/index>`, as well as support for forensic formats, network shares, and virtual overlays.

.. seealso::

   For more details, see :doc:`Filesystems </advanced/filesystems>`.

.. list-table:: Supported Filesystems
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 30

   * - Filesystem
     - Description

>    * - :class:`AD1 <dissect.target.filesystems.ad1.AD1Filesystem>`

Reviewer: Same here about the links.

     - Fast File System (BSD).
   * - :class:`JFFS <dissect.target.filesystems.jffs.JffsFilesystem>`
     - Journaling Flash File System.
   * - :class:`Network File Share <dissect.target.filesystems.nfs.NfsFilesystem>`
     - NFS share filesystem.
   * - :class:`NTFS <dissect.target.filesystems.ntfs.NtfsFilesystem>`
     - Microsoft NTFS filesystem.
   * - :class:`Overlay2 <dissect.target.filesystems.overlay.Overlay2Filesystem>`, :class:`Overlay <dissect.target.filesystems.overlay.OverlayFilesystem>`
     - Overlay filesystem used in container environments.
   * - :class:`QnxFs <dissect.target.filesystems.qnxfs.QnxFilesystem>`
     - QNX filesystem.
   * - :class:`SquashFS <dissect.target.filesystems.squashfs.SquashFSFilesystem>`
     - Compressed read-only filesystem.
   * - :class:`Virtual Backup Files <dissect.target.filesystems.vbk.VbkFilesystem>`
     - Filesystem representation of VBK backup files.
   * - :class:`VMFS <dissect.target.filesystems.vmfs.VmfsFilesystem>`
     - VMware VMFS filesystem.
   * - :class:`XFS <dissect.target.filesystems.xfs.XfsFilesystem>`
     - High-performance journaling filesystem

Operating Systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Dissect includes a range of ``OSPlugins`` that help identify the operating system present on a target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dissect includes a range of ``OSPlugins`` that help identify the operating system present on a target.
```
Unnecessary detail? Just say we support various operating systems.

These plugins analyze disk data to determine the system type, enabling more accurate queries such as retrieving user or network information.

Below is a list of supported operating systems that Dissect can detect.

.. list-table:: Supported Operating Systems
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20

>    * - Operating System

Reviewer: There's some improper capitalization in this list.

>    * - :class:`Android <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.android._os.AndroidPlugin>`

Reviewer: Maybe don't list this alphabetically, but rather sorted by inheritance.

Author: I'll sort it by inheritance

   * - :class:`RES <dissect.target.loaders.res.ResOSPlugin>`
   * - :class:`OpenSusSE <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.suse._os.SuSEPlugin>`
   * - :class:`Unix <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix._os.UnixPlugin>`
   * - :class:`Vyos <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.debian.vyos._os.VyosPlugin>`
   * - :class:`Windows <dissect.target.plugins.os.windows._os.WindowsPlugin>`

Child Targets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dissect supports identifying, listing and querying *child targets*.
These are targets within other targets.
These can include virtual machines, containers, or other environments nested inside a target.
Child targets are discovered using configuration files or metadata present on the host or target.
Dissect can recursively query these targets, allowing it to detect deeply nested environments automatically.

.. seealso::

   For more details, see :ref:`Child targets <advanced/targets:Targets in targets>`.

.. list-table:: Supported Child Targets
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 35

   * - Child Target
     - Description
   * - :class:`Colima <dissect.target.plugins.child.colima.ColimaChildTargetPlugin>`

>      - Child target plugin that yields Colima containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Colima containers.
```
This prefix is unnecessary. And what is Colima? Just add one line for everything.

     - Proxmox Virtual Machine Archive files.
     - ``.vma``
     - :class:`vma <dissect.target.loaders.vma.VmaLoader>`
   * - VMware Fusion
     - VMware Fusion virtual machines.
     - ``.vmwarevm``
     - :class:`vmwarevm <dissect.target.loaders.vmwarevm.VmwarevmLoader>`
   * - VMware VM configuration
     - VMware virtual machine configuration files.
     - ``.vmx``
     - :class:`vmx <dissect.target.loaders.vmx.VmxLoader>`
   * - XVA
     - Citrix Hypervisor format files.
     - ``.xva``
     - :class:`xva <dissect.target.loaders.xva.XvaLoader>`
   * - Zip
     - Zip files themselves or load the output of tools like Acquire or UAC.
     - ``.zip``
     - :class:`zip <dissect.target.loaders.zip.ZipLoader>`

Containers
~~~~~~~~~~

Containers let Dissect interact with a disk-like structure in a consistent way.
These can be virtual machine files, forensic containers or a hard disk itself.

.. seealso::

   For a deeper understanding on how containers work, see :doc:`containers <advanced/containers>`.

Dissect has two methods to find the appropriate container automatically.
The first one is based on the file extension, while the other is based on a magic value inside the file.

> As an example, the qcow2 container gets selected if the file extension is `.qcow2` or if the first bytes of the file are b"QFI\xfb".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dissect can select the appropriate container automatically based on either file extension or file magic.
For example, the QCOW2 container gets selected if the file extension is `.qcow2` or if the first bytes of the file are ``b"QFI\xfb"``.
```

Supported targets
-----------------

Dissect supports a large range of formats.
From various disk images, volume systems, file systems and operating systems, to tarballs and proprietary backup formats, and everything combined!
This page aims to provide you with an overview of what you can expect Dissect to be able to handle!

Loaders
~~~~~~~

Loaders provide a way to interact with a "target" by combining and accessing source data into usable parts.
This creates a virtual version of the original system.

.. seealso::

   For a deeper dive into how loaders work, see :doc:`loaders </advanced/loaders>`.

In most cases, Dissect selects the appropriate loader automatically based on the file you target.
It does this by looking at things like the file type, folder structure or special configurations files.
If needed, you can choose the loader yourself by using ``-L <loader type>`` option or by using the URI-style notation ``<loader type>://``.

.. code-block:: bash

   target-query -f func -L ab /path/to/target
   target-query -f func ab:///path/to/target

>    target-query -f func /path/to/target.ab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   target-query -f func /path/to/target.ab
   target-query -f func -L ab /path/to/target
   target-query -f func ab:///path/to/target
```

.. list-table:: Supported Loaders
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 20 10 5

   * - Name
     - Description
     - Extension
     - Type
   * - Android Backup
     - Android backup files.
     - ``.ab``
     - :class:`ab <dissect.target.loaders.ab.AndroidBackupLoader>`
   * - Carbon Black
     - Carbon Black Live Response endpoints. Can only be used directly with ``cb://`` or ``-L cb``.
     -
     - :class:`cb <dissect.target.loaders.cb.CbLoader>`
   * - Cellebrite
     - Cellebrite UFED exports files.
     - ``.ufdx``, ``.ufd``
     - :class:`cellebrite <dissect.target.loaders.cellebrite.CellebriteLoader>`
   * - Directory
     - Use a local directory as the root of a virtual filesystem.
     -
     - :class:`dir <dissect.target.loaders.dir.DirLoader>`
   * - Hyper-V
     - Microsoft Hyper-V configuration files.
     - ``.vmcx``, ``.xml``
     - :class:`hyperv <dissect.target.loaders.hyperv.HyperVLoader>`
   * - Itunes Backup

>      - iTunes backup files. Only from a directory that contains a ``Manifest.plist`` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - iTunes Backup
     - iTunes backup files. Only from a directory that contains a ``Manifest.plist`` file.
```

     -
     - :class:`itunes <dissect.target.loaders.itunes.ITunesLoader>`

>    * - Kape

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - KAPE
```

>      - KAPE forensic image format files. Only if the file or directory contains Kape specific directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - KAPE forensic image format files. Only if the file or directory contains KAPE specific directories.
```

     - ``.vhdx`` or ``directory/``
     - :class:`kape <dissect.target.loaders.kape.KapeLoader>`
   * - Libvirt
     - Libvirt xml configuration files.
     - ``.xml``
     - :class:`libvirt <dissect.target.loaders.libvirt.LibvirtLoader>`
   * - Local
     - Interpret the local system inside Dissect.
     -
     - :class:`local <dissect.target.loaders.local.LocalLoader>`
   * - Log
     - Target specific log files. Can only be used directly with ``cb://`` or ``-L log``.
     -

>      - :class:`log <dissect.target.loaders.log.LogLoader>`

Reviewer: This one will be removed soon, maybe just leave it out?

   * - MQTT
     - MQTT broker. Can only be used directly with ``mqtt://`` or ``-L mqtt``.
     -
     - :class:`mqtt <dissect.target.loaders.mqtt.MqttLoader>`
   * - OVA
     - Virtual Appliance files.
     - ``.ova``
     - :class:`ova <dissect.target.loaders.ova.OvaLoader>`
   * - Overlay
     - Construct a filesystem of the different layers of a ``podman`` container directory.
     -
     - :class:`overlay <dissect.target.loaders.overlay.OverlayLoader>`,
   * - Overlay2
     - Construct a filesystem of the different layers of a ``docker`` container directory.
     -
     - :class:`overlay2 <dissect.target.loaders.overlay2.Overlay2Loader>`
   * - Open Virtualization Format
     - Open Virtualization Format (OVF) files.
     - ``.ovf``
     - :class:`ovf <dissect.target.loaders.ovf.OvfLoader>`
   * - Phobos
     - Phobos Ransomware files.
     - ``.eight``

>      - :class:`phobos <dissect.target.loaders.phobos.PhobosLoader>`

Reviewer: Maybe leave this one out too, it's too specific and not really useful for other people.

   * - Proxmox
     - Proxmox VM configuration files.
     - ``.conf``
     - :class:`proxmox <dissect.target.loaders.proxmox.ProxmoxLoader>`
   * - Parallels VM
     - Parallels VM directory (.pvm) and the conviguration file (config.pvs)
     - ``.pvm``, ``config.pvs``
     - :class:`pvm <dissect.target.loaders.pvm.PvmLoader>`,
       :class:`pvs <dissect.target.loaders.pvs.PvsLoader>`
   * - Raw
     - Raw binary files such as disk images.
       To load multiple raw containers in a single target, use ``MultiRaw``.
       To use this loader automatically use ``+`` to chain disks. E.g. ``/dev/vda+/dev/vdb`` 
     - 
     - :class:`raw <dissect.target.loaders.raw.RawLoader>`,
       :class:`multiraw <dissect.target.loaders.multiraw.MultiRawLoader>`
   * - Remote
     - Connect to a remote target that runs a compatible Dissect agent. Can only be used directly with ``remote://`` or ``-L remote``.
     -
     - :class:`remote <dissect.target.loaders.remote.RemoteLoader>`
   * - SMB
     - Use an SMB connection to user remote SMB servers as a target.

>        This particular loader requires ``impacket`` to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       This loader requires ``impacket`` to be installed.
```
Maybe work `dissect.target[smb]` somewhere in here too.

       Can only be used directly with ``smb://`` or ``-L smb``.
     -
     - :class:`smb <dissect.target.loaders.smb.SmbLoader>`
   * - Tanium
     - Tanium forensic image format files.
     -
     - :class:`tanium <dissect.target.loaders.tanium.TaniumLoader>`
   * - Tar
     - (Compressed) Tar files, docker container images and output files from Acquire or UAC.
     - ``.tar``, ``.tar.<comp>``, ``.t<comp>``
     - :class:`tar <dissect.target.loaders.tar.TarLoader>`
   * - Target
     - Load target system using a target file.
     - ``.target``
     - :class:`target <dissect.target.loaders.target.TargetLoader>`
   * - Unix-like Artifacts Collector
     - UAC tool output. Detects whether the directory contains ``uac.log`` and a ``[root]`` directory.
     -
     - :class:`uac <dissect.target.loaders.uac.UacLoader>`
   * - UTM
     - UTM virtual machine files.
     - ``*.utm/`` directory.
     - :class:`utm <dissect.target.loaders.utm.UtmLoader>`
   * - VB
     - Construct a target from files created by RawCopy
     -

>      - :class:`vb <dissect.target.loaders.vb.VBLoader>`

Reviewer: This one can be left out too, it was case specific.

     - :class:`vbox <dissect.target.loaders.vbox.VBoxLoader>`
   * - Veaam Backup
     - Load Veaam Backup (VBK) files.
     - ``.vbk``
     - :class:`vbk <dissect.target.loaders.vbk.VbkLoader>`
   * - Velociraptor
     - Rapid7 Velociraptor forensic image files. Either loads in the zip file or a directory containing the contents.
     -
     - :class:`velociraptor <dissect.target.loaders.velociraptor.VelociraptorLoader>`
   * - Virtual Machine Archive
     - Proxmox Virtual Machine Archive files.
     - ``.vma``
     - :class:`vma <dissect.target.loaders.vma.VmaLoader>`
   * - VMware Fusion
     - VMware Fusion virtual machines.
     - ``.vmwarevm``
     - :class:`vmwarevm <dissect.target.loaders.vmwarevm.VmwarevmLoader>`
   * - VMware VM configuration
     - VMware virtual machine configuration files.
     - ``.vmx``
     - :class:`vmx <dissect.target.loaders.vmx.VmxLoader>`
   * - XVA
     - Citrix Hypervisor format files.
     - ``.xva``
     - :class:`xva <dissect.target.loaders.xva.XvaLoader>`
   * - Zip
     - Zip files themselves or load the output of tools like Acquire or UAC.
     - ``.zip``
     - :class:`zip <dissect.target.loaders.zip.ZipLoader>`

Containers

> ~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: Maybe add something that containers also do automatic selection based on file extension or file magic.

> Containers lets Dissect interact with a disk-like structure in a consistent way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Containers let Dissect interact with a disk-like structure in a consistent way.
```

> These can be virtual machine files, forensic containers or a harddisk itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These can be virtual machine files, forensic containers or a hard disk itself.
```

.. seealso::

   For a deeper understanding on how containers work, see :doc:`containers <advanced/containers>`.

The table below lists the supported container formats.

.. list-table:: Supported Containers
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 20 5 5

   * - Container
     - Description
     - Extension
     - API
   * - Apple Sparse Image Format
     - A sparse disk format introduced by Apple with near native SSD speeds.
     - ``.asif``

>      - :class:`here <dissect.target.containers.asif.AsifContainer>`

Reviewer: Why "here"? Maybe just use the same wording as the loaders?

Author: I changed all `here` to either the filename or the value inside `class.__type__`

   * - Qcow2
     - QEMU Copy On Write virtual disk format.
     - ``.qcow2``
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.containers.qcow2.QCow2Container>`
   * - VDI
     - The virtualbox harddisk format.
     - ``.vdi``
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.containers.vdi.VdiContainer>`
   * - Virtual Hard Disk
     - The original virtual hard disk format developed by Microsoft. Mainly used by the Hyper-V hypervisor.
     - ``.vhd``
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.containers.vhd.VhdContainer>`
   * - Virtual Hard Disk X
     - Virtual Hard Disk v2, the successor of VHD, and the new default on Hyper-V.
     - ``.vhdx``
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.containers.vhdx.VhdxContainer>`
   * - VMware disk format
     - VMware virtual hard disks.
     - ``.vmdk``
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.containers.vmdk.VmdkContainer>`

Partition Schemes and Volume Systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dissect supports the following partition schemes to divide a disk into multiple logical volumes.

.. list-table:: Supported Partition Schemes
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 45 5

   * - Partition Scheme
     - API
   * - Apple Partition Map

>      - :class:`here <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.apm.APM>`

Reviewer: Same question.

   * - BSD Disklabel
     - :class:`here <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.bsd.BSD>`
   * - GUID Partition Table
     - :class:`here <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.gpt.GPT>`
   * - Master Boot Record
     - :class:`here <dissect.volume.disk.schemes.mbr.MBR>`

Besides these standard partition tables used in most computer systems, Dissect supports disks in RAID configurations or disks with logical volumes that span multiple disks.

.. seealso::

    For more details, see :doc:`volumes <advanced/volumes>`.

> The table below showcases the different supported volume systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below lists the different supported volume systems.
```

.. list-table:: Supported Volume Systems
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 30 5

   * - Volume System
     - Description
     - API
   * - Disk Data Format
     - DDF is a RAID data format that describes how data is formatted across raid groups.

>      - :class:`here <dissect.target.volumes.ddf.DdfVolumeSystem>`

Reviewer: Commonly used by Dell RAID controllers.

   * - Logical Volume Manager
     - LVM is a device mapper framework that can make multiple volumes on a single disk.

>      - :class:`here <dissect.target.volumes.lvm.LvmVolumeSystem>`

Reviewer: Specifically only LVM2.

Author: Made it specific to LVM2

   * - Multiple Device driver
     - Linux MD RAID volume system. A software based RAID system.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.volumes.md.MdVolumeSystem>`
   * - Virtual Machine Filesystem
     - VMFS is a clustered filesystem developed by VMWare on an ESXi type hosts.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.volumes.vmfs.VmfsVolumeSystem>`

Dissect also has decryption capability for some well known systems.

> This functionality can be accessed with a keychain file (specified with ``-K``) with multiple passphrases or a keychain value (``-Kv``) using Dissect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality can be accessed with a keychain file (specified with ``-K``) with multiple passphrases or a keychain value (``-Kv``) in most Dissect tools.
```

Dissect supports the following encryption formats.

.. list-table:: Supported Encrypted Volume Systems
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 30 5

   * - Encrypted volume system
     - Description
     - API
   * - Linux Unified Key Setup
     - LUKS encrypted volume system. These are the standard specification for disk encryption on linux systems.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.volumes.luks.LUKSVolumeSystem>`

>    * - Bitlocker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - BitLocker
```

     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.overlay.OverlayFilesystem>`
   * - Overlay2
     - Overlay2 Filesystem is a more efficient version of the Overlay filesystem.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.overlay.Overlay2Filesystem>`
   * - QNX4, QNX6
     - QNX filesystem, commonly used in the QNX RTOS.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.qnxfs.QnxFilesystem>`
   * - SquashFS
     - Compressed read-only filesystem used by linux systems.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.squashfs.SquashFSFilesystem>`
   * - Virtual Backup Files
     - Filesystem representation of VBK backup files.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.vbk.VbkFilesystem>`
   * - VMFS
     - VMware VMFS filesystem.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.vmfs.VmfsFilesystem>`
   * - XFS
     - High-performance journaling filesystem
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.filesystems.xfs.XfsFilesystem>`

Operating Systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dissect supports various operating systems, where Dissect tries to automatically figure out what operating system is available on the disk.

> Once the operating system is known, it enables the user to get more accurate information from the system, for example, the user andretrieve user or network information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the operating system is known, it enables the user to get more accurate information from the system, for example, the user or network configuration.
```

Below is a list of supported operating systems that Dissect can detect.

.. list-table:: Supported Operating Systems
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 45 5

   * - Operating System
     - API
   * - RES

>      - :class:`here <dissect.target.loaders.res.ResOSPlugin>`

Reviewer: Probbaly leave this out.

   * - Windows
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.windows._os.WindowsPlugin>`
   * - Unix
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix._os.UnixPlugin>`
   * - ESXi
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.esxi._os.ESXiPlugin>`
   * - BSD
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd._os.BsdPlugin>`
   * - Citrix
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd.citrix._os.CitrixPlugin>`
   * - FreeBSD
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd.freebsd._os.FreeBsdPlugin>`
   * - OpenBSD
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd.openbsd._os.OpenBsdPlugin>`
   * - Darwin
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd.darwin._os.DarwinPlugin>`
   * - iOS
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd.darwin.ios._os.IOSPlugin>`

>    * - MacOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - macOS
```

     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.bsd.darwin.macos._os.MacOSPlugin>`
   * - Generic Linux
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux._os.LinuxPlugin>`
   * - Android
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.android._os.AndroidPlugin>`

>    * - Fortinet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - FortiOS
```

   * - OpenSUSE
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.suse._os.SuSEPlugin>`
   * - RedHat
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.redhat._os.RedHatPlugin>`
   * - Debian
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.debian._os.DebianPlugin>`
   * - Proxmox
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.debian.proxmox._os.ProxmoxPlugin>`
   * - VyOS
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.os.unix.linux.debian.vyos._os.VyosPlugin>`

Child Targets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Dissect supports identifying, listing and querying *child targets*.
These are systems within other systems and can include virtual machines, containers or any other environment inside a "target".
Dissect finds these systems by looking inside configuration files on the systems.
It can even look deeper, and look inside those systems within systems for even more *child targets*.

.. seealso::

   For more details, see :ref:`Child targets <advanced/targets:Targets in targets>`.

.. list-table:: Supported Child Targets
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 15 35 5

   * - Child Target
     - Description
     - API
   * - Colima

>      - Colima container format, which is a runtime for both linux and macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Colima container format, which is a runtime for both Linux and macOS.
```

     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.colima.ColimaChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Docker

>      - The Docker overlay2fs containers that available on the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The Docker overlay2fs containers that are available on the system.
```

     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.docker.DockerChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - ESXi
     - The VM inventory on ESXi machines.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.esxi.ESXiChildTargetPlugin>`

>    * - Hyper-v

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - Hyper-V
```

     - The VM inventory on Hyper-V Windows hosts.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.hyperv.HyperVChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Lima

>      - Lima, Linux Machines, is a container / VM runtime that supports different container engines such as docker, podman, and kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Lima, Linux Machines, is a container / VM runtime that supports different container engines such as Docker, Podman, and Kubernetes.
```

     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.lima.LimaChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Parallels
     - The Parallels Desktop inventory, Parallels is a hypervisor for Mac computers.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.parallels.ParallelsChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Podman
     - Podman, a container runtime engine such as Docker.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.podman.PodmanChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Proxmox
     - Proxmox is a debian based virtualization platform.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.proxmox.ProxmoxChildTargetPlugin>`

>    * - Qemu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - QEMU
```

     - All QEMU virtual machines created by the KVM libvirt deamon.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.qemu.QemuChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - VirtualBox
     - Oracle VirtualBox VMs.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.virtualbox.VirtualBoxChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Virtuozzo

>      - All the vms from the Virtuozzo container's root directory ``vz/root/$VEID``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - All the Virtuozzo containers.
```

     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.virtuozzo.VirtuozzoChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - Vmware Workstation
     - All the VMs registerd within the VMWare workstation VM inventory.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.vmware_workstation.VmwareWorkstationChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - WSL

>      - All the Windows Subsystem Linux VHDX file locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - VMware Workstation
     - All the VMs registerd within the VMware Workstation VM inventory.
     - :class:`here <dissect.target.plugins.child.vmware_workstation.VmwareWorkstationChildTargetPlugin>`
   * - WSL2
     - All the Windows Subsystem for Linux 2 instances.
```

Supported targets
-----------------

This page contains a list of the systems that ``dissect`` supports.

Loaders
~~~~~~~

.. Descriptions can be reworded by changing _defaults/loaders.csv
.. csv-table:: Supported Loaders
   :header-rows: 1
   :file: /supported_targets/loaders.csv

>    :widths: 15 10 25

Reviewer: The CSV approach sucks a bit, is there not a better way? Maybe a custom table directive where you can manually override entries, keyed on the module name?

Author: I thought a bit further about it, and having a plugin automatically generate it will be more effort than it is worth. So I opted to write it manually

Supported targets
-----------------

Dissect supports a large range of formats.
From various disk images, volume systems, file systems and operating systems, to tarballs and proprietary backup formats, and everything combined!
This page aims to provide you with an overview of what you can expect Dissect to be able to handle!

Loaders
~~~~~~~

Loaders provide a way to interact with a "target" by combining and accessing source data into usable parts.

> This creates a virtual version of the original system.

Reviewer: I liked the term "representation" better in this context.
